[Music]
so as Barry said I have a background in
graphic design here my degrees values
degrees and you will see that what I do
today could have nothing to do with it
but somehow it does so these are like
examples of things I used to do in the
past like ten years ago
I used to do graphic design I did like
the visual identity of the compiaint
iris and a couple of like big projects
and while studying and while working as
a graphic designer I think I was a bit
of a producer without knowing it this is
an example of an exhibition for which I
designed all the scenography in my
school in 2007 this is a type design
exhibition that I taught and while
touring it I had to work on adapting it
like this was the first iteration this
was the second
this was the third of the same content
and you can see a lot of similarities
with this picture and the one Joanie
showed so I guess I have a lot of
experience in wallpapers and things like
that and I ended up following a large
set up of an installation by Daniel
Bergen in the hopper a and I and I had
to I ended up there really by accident
and I had to produce whatever content to
put on the social networks while they
were setting up and while a lot of
events were going on during the
installation time and during all these
experiences I had no idea that this
could actually be a job producer title
is much more usual in the
in the States or even in in the UK but
it's not that common in in France so I
did all of that and paid at the time and
now I'm kind of doing the same but
trying to make my living out of it so
again by accident I ended up working at
fat as a head of communication for six
or eight months and I was lucky to be
there during the Vancouver Olympics so I
ended up angeling a lot of really cool
projects as part of the cultural
Olympics so I had been friends with
Hinata before from aunty DJ since high
school so I knew a lot of what was
happening on the digital digital scene
in Europe but I was just a spectator of
it and it's really completely rendered
that random that I ended up working as
well at mapping festival in Geneva and
this is where I met Joni and this is how
in 2013 I ended up with him in Japan I
was supposed to be there on a holiday
but as when he decided on the plane to
make a completely new project there when
we got there everything was like chaos
so I couldn't just like say and visit
Japan and that's when I became join his
producer like I really had to help out
because you know working context with
Japanese people you have to tell them
what to do so if you don't have someone
acting like a boss nothing will happen
and so how do I work I'm officially a
head of production at Studio G onion
immerses the studio is basically
journeying myself so I'm not the head of
a lot of people but when we have bigger
projects we love to have the opportunity
to collaborate with other people and
this is when I need to handle this
collaboration with other people and on a
daily basis there's a lot
to do so working on a full collaboration
with someone in total transparency full
trust knowing each other a lot of
communication human patients I it's
difficult to explain what I do in this
video because I take care of like
everything including the impossible so
that's my daily job on one hand and as
Barry mentioned I also collaborate with
many various artists it's been changing
awhile recently I had taken a lot of
collaborations and started drowning a
bit into this so now I've kind of chosen
specific projects instead of like
working with an artist on whatever is
doing or whatever he wants to do so we
are a couple examples of projects that I
know very well that I have already set
up sometimes so whenever I get requests
or whenever I meet with people this is a
lot of informal discussions a lot of
networking and and when someone tells me
oh oh I want I would love something
interactive and full of colors and like
a I have this really cool project by
mammal accent I knew this project by Ken
McDonald international and it had never
been shown in Europe so three years ago
I helped making it happen
by knowing that some people in France
had disco balls and another person in
another city in France had the really
amazing green house and wanted to do
something with light and so I I make
connections and help communication I am
representing one really cool VR project
and there is a lot to say about via
especially the problem of like having
festivals with thousands of people and a
single user experience and but that's
for another talk but we could have a
really interesting discussion about that
I guess I helped several time
with this project by-product anchor
because some people are afraid of
cobwebs projects because of the lasers
constraints and problem and whenever I
hear that I'm like but do you know he
has this really cool project that is
really much easier to set up and these
other projects so I like foldable on
this one I never get paid all of that I
just help the connection and I know that
if one day as now I also start
organizing event I know that I have a
special connection with Warburton and
maybe we can do something together so
it's really as much helping the
community as doing this as a job and
Joanna is not so much of a performance
person so I also and often I see the
same performances wherever I go for
projects and and I really try to support
performances when I find good ones so
this one is a really nice one by a
French visual artist Jacques Perkins and
Ramona Dan Kelly is one half of music
band half so this is a really I love to
produce this performance in a black and
white line geometric aesthetic lineup
because then you have a huge splash of
colours for 45 minutes and I love the
contrast of that and as I have a chance
to travel for projects especially going
with shirani I ended up discovering
that's an example I ended up discovering
this piece by a Korean collective and I
managed to bring it to Europe and to
show it in two places
in France and yeah I was really proud of
of taking these fees out of Korea
because we we discovered a lot of
amazing Korean artists in Korea and you
don't see them outside of Korea so as I
said and mostly Jo and his producer
other people produces a producer but for
young 1/2 now I've been asked several
times to create a program for a festival
or for
some strange events and and as I said I
know the possibilities I know the costs
I know the artists and I'm trying to
make nice things out of that so I'm
going to talk a little bit more about
what it is to be a digital producer but
you have to keep in mind that I don't
really know so yeah it's kind of a it's
going to be a lot of lists so this is
the values names I can be called
depending on the context and the country
it's really interesting to see how this
has to do with a culture as well but
long story short in a global way I try
to make things realistic feasible and
possible by having a global point of
view on time space money logistics text
everything that you can think of and I
try also to think about what you would
not think of to be pragmatic when a
project starts I very often feel like
this at all the moments I'm going to
steal a lot like that then I have to
take a deep breath and you know relax
this is not my top thing to be able to
juggle with whatever is going to happen
and at the end be super excited by the
results so this means that on a daily
basis I go to places I I try to stay
curious even if I travel a lot and see a
lot of festivals and and when you get
there you're tired and maybe you don't
want to stay for the performances but
maybe that's when you're going to see
something very extraordinary to always
look for what's new and always
understand technologies
I don't code but I have a geek
background which allows me to understand
whatever the artist I'm working with is
doing for example when I started
collaborating with Russian collective
Tundra I
didn't know anything about moving lights
moving has DMX control and I will be
able to control any lights but I
understand what addressing channels
means in terms of time and what's going
to be the possible problems if you
change something as well as
understanding that BM FL machine are as
expensive as a 20k quickie projector
it's just like understand the big
picture of the technology I have to
handle before projects I email a lot I
discuss budgets I ask three times four
for plans that I will get without
measurements ideally I manage to get
three D plans then I also handle travel
accommodation now Jam schedule I mean
everything very pragmatic during the
project development I work a lot with
the artists to remain in the deadlines
because like we want the project on the
opening nights not not a week after and
I always asked like that all the time I
try to ask to stupid questions because
things are going that are going to seem
very obvious
let me find an example yeah like maybe
it's going to be a problem if the power
is turned off at night so we have to ask
is the power going to be turned off at
night because in some places it's like
automatic and there's no way you can
have the computer keep running overnight
and maybe that's going to be a huge
problem and during setup you will
finally join thousand black dots on the
wall you will see me making a pyramid
factory in a slab that was the one for
the Milan Fashion Week a lot of crazy
money everywhere but we would have
access to the venue only twice six hours
to set up many pyramids and this is just
like one of the six zone we had to cover
with pyramids so we had to pre mount
them
and then find a way to transport them
this is a the mounting of the trusses
for the blueprint project Johnny showed
before and it was a good thing that I
was there three days before join his
arrival because I saw that the technical
team who had the plans did not align
properly the trusses which would have
been a big problem because Renaud worked
for a month and a half to create this
specific peak moment where the image
from the monoliths and the front screens
would match and I also loved to draw on
ladders as Ronny said it's really nice
after two or three months of emailing to
make a project happen to end up drawing
bamboos for three days so during short
time I document maybe not myself but I
make sure that someone is doing it
because we I can think about two or
three amazing projects we have zero
documentation of like especially the big
one of mapping in this church in
Bordeaux and then you're like ah how
could we let that happen it's because
you know it's the the crazy time the
show time and you don't think about that
and you think some people are going to
do it and sometimes nobody does it and
my job is also after the event to like
get paid make sure we have a nice video
report make sure we thank everyone
because this is like we are part of a
big family and this is also very
important and sometimes we I won't get
too much into that but we've managed to
ship several projects without going
there and this is a whole other scenario
I have to work a lot on set of manuals
and make sure that I take pictures of
everything we send and when the project
is over sometimes it's going to be two
or three months after I have to remember
that we have a computer in Moscow and
and we need it back with the power plug
so as I said maybe a sound like I know
what I'm doing but it's always different
so there is a lot of improvisation I
guess but at the end it's really worth
it so this is me in front of things I
was happy and this is my cat because
sometimes she helps me so what's the
deal
about like Johnny mentioned that a
little bit this is something that
happened and now we are trying to
control it
meaning finding a balance between
artistic and commercial projects because
it's at times and all public artistic
based organization have less and less
money so I think we have no choice as
people working with artists and pushing
them towards commercial projects and I
think I have a role of protecting the
artistic gesture of what the artist is
doing sorry it's a bit confused but you
get the big idea so we work on this kind
of trio between festival based projects
gallery pieces or any mention and
commercial commissioned projects I know
this is very different between the US
and Europe because we are lucky enough
to have a long history of public funding
for the Arts whereas you don't have so
much of it in the US but the result is
that it's a lot we'd say it's the Vltava
it's a bit of a shameful thing to
do for an artist to work for a company
especially in Europe so a lot of artists
are like no I don't want to work for a
company they're going to buy my soul and
everything and I really think that this
is changing I always use the example of
how Red Bull can support amazing events
without putting their logo
sites all over the place how did a lot
of things in this direction so I think I
have to explain a lot to both parties
how we can work together and join you
mention the Barneys project being a
captive launch it started as a custom
launch and it shifted every week into
less of a captive launch so you really
have to put your step down and say no
and negotiate when you have to and
sometimes just be really sure that this
is not going in your in the artistic
direction you want to so a couple of
examples of festival based projects like
this I'm going to show what Joanna
showed previously so these are like
examples these are gallery projects just
to help you make connections between you
can see that there's a common aesthetic
but that the scale and final outcome is
really different like Joanna had to work
a lot on his creative process to make
strong gallery pieces that are not
[Music]
constantly depending on the music and
the audio reactive because like on a
piece like Fuji Fuji the sound is very
important is bringing a lot of the
narratives the drama the the you know
it's the finale thanks to the music
whereas when you're a private collector
and have a piece like that in your
living room you don't want to have like
sound all over the place so you have to
have a different approach to make a
strong piece without the sound so
Commission projects for me are
interesting is they are an opportunity
to test new techniques an idea and by
that I mean you often very expensive
techniques or expensive equipment so
that's one of the bonus projects I have
a whole really deep talk about the the
other process for this Bunny's holiday
windows
and how we had a lot of challenges with
fabrications and all the artists
involves our artists from the digital
world who had zero experience in like
building stuff so I also see something
really interesting there happening like
nowadays and of course companies like
Autodesk really helping to build bridges
to help like this is a good example of
how when you have such a detailed 3d
shape you somehow have the illusion that
you press a key and it's going to like
happen but we got stuck for two weeks
and almost had like we almost think of
cancelling the project because none of
the architects would work like
specialists we send these 3d files to
knew how to build specific angles so
this project was made with boys
edelstein from madmapper and we had to
ask kyle to build to code an algorithm
to make it possible with some like
forbidden angles to get to a shape that
was possible to build so it was really
interesting to see the back-and-forth
between the digital and the real world
and as an example of how everything is
connected both on the visual results but
also on the economic side and so we were
invited last year by this festival in
Spain and Junia had a cart of knowledge
we had a couple of days they had this
really high wall I think it's 8 meters
huh 9 meters high wall and we had no
existing projects who could fit this
wall so that was a good excuse to make a
new one then Johanna made the small
diamond print version to be sold as a
gallery piece and we just made some kind
of intermediate size for this wall over
there
and so how about tomorrow that's just a
couple of I don't know
keeps all like to maybe think of stop
working for six months on one off to
always Kim mine while you are making a
piece how is it going at all how is how
is it scalable how can it have like
other iterations to share your knowledge
if you follow Joanna's work you know is
like sharing a lot and documenting
documenting a lot of the code and the
the how it's made online get inspired
and look for inspiration house well than
done online so my website is down
because I'm like a barefoot shoe maker
but follow me on Twitter or Instagram
and I will let you know whenever this is
a fix
thank you